Other Center Projects
--------------------------

**Sensor Mappings** – *Published: December 12, 2023*

The Sensor Mappings to ATT&CK Project (SMAP) is a collection of resources to assist security operations teams and security leaders with understanding which tools, capabilities, and events can help provide visibility into real-world adversary behaviors potentially occurring in their environments. SMAP builds on MITRE ATT&CK® Data Sources by connecting the conceptual data source representations of information that can be collected to concrete logs, sensors, and other security capabilities that provide that type of data.


**OceanLotus Adversary Emulation Plan** – *Published: October 9, 2023*

OceanLotus (aka APT32, SeaLotus, APT-C-00) is a suspected Vietnam-based threat group that has been active since at least 2014. The group has targeted multiple private sector industries as well as foreign governments, dissidents, and journalists. This project adds the first macOS and Linux focused plans to the Adversary Emulation library for red and blue teams to systematically test their defenses against real-world adversary TTPs.


**Summiting The Pyramid** – *Published: September 10, 2023*

Many analytics are dependent on specific tools or artifacts. Adversaries can easily evade these with low-cost changes that exploit the dependencies. This project developed a method to evaluate analytics relative to the adversary’s cost to evade. We further created approaches and tips for defenders to make their analytics less evadable. We demonstrated the methodology with a core set of analytics.
Threat Report ATT&CK Mapper TRAM Published: August 24, 2023
Many analytics are dependent on specific tools or artifacts. Adversaries can easily evade these with low-cost changes that exploit the dependencies. This project developed a method to evaluate analytics relative to the adversary’s cost to evade. We further created approaches and tips for defenders to make their analytics less evadable. We demonstrated the methodology with a core set of analytics.


**ATT&CK Workbench** - *Published: August 15, 2023*

The Workbench project expands the functionality of the current platform to enable teams to explore, create, annotate, and share extensions of the ATT&CK knowledge base. This work increases the utility of using Workbench as a local knowledge base that can be extended with a team’s new or updated techniques, tactics, mitigations groups, and software.

**CTI Blueprints** - *Published: June 7, 2023*
This project developed an approach and prototype tool for creating narrative cyber threat intel reports that analysts need in the form they need them. Reports produced using CTI Blueprints include structured STIX content, are tagged with ATT&CK reference, and enable operational defensive cyber analysis, analytics testing, and adversary emulation. We will establish a new normal for cyber threat intelligence. Producers will create actionable intelligence for their consumers, and consumers will take specific threat-informed action.
ATT&CK To Veris - Published: April 6, 2023
This project updates and expands the translation layer between VERIS and ATT&CK allowing ATT&CK to describe the adversary behaviors that were observed in an incident coded in VERIS. These connections allow for joint analysis of the information that ATT&CK describes well alongside the incident demographics and metadata that VERIS describes well.
Defending IAAS with ATT&CK - Published: November 16, 2022
Defending IaaS with ATT&CK developed an ATT&CK matrix that enables users to easily understand and work with the techniques applicable to Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) environments, regardless of whether the attacks target the cloud management layer, the container technology, or the hosted infrastructure. The project also developed documentation and tools to simplify creating overlays for other domains like Industrial Control Systems (ICS) or Operational Technology (OT).
ATT&CK Flow  - Published: October 27, 2022
Attack flow is a data model with supporting tooling and examples for describing sequences of adversary behaviors. Attack flows help defenders understand, share, and make threat-informed decisions based on the sequence of actions in a cyber-attack. Flows can be analyzed to identify common patterns in adversary behavior, overlayed on ATT&CK Navigator layers to understand defensive coverage, and create a foundation for intel-driven adversary emulation plans.
Micro Emulation Plans  - Published: September 15, 2022
Micro Emulation Plans help organizations validate their defenses quickly and easily by building smaller scale adversary emulation plans that are fully automated using compatible tools and focused on common threats. The Micro Emulation Plans help scale the impact of the Adversary Emulation Library beyond those with sophisticated red teams to allow even those without a red team to run scenarios in compatible breach and attack simulation or automated adversary emulation tools, make improvements, and validate improvements.
Cloud Analytics  - Published: July 28, 2022
The Cloud Analytics project sought to advance the state of the practice by developing a blueprint for writing analytics for cloud platforms. To create the blueprint, the team “learned by doing” – exercising adversary behaviors, developing analytics, and refining them. Lessons learned were gathered along the way and incorporated into the analytics blueprint shared with the community.
Security Stack Mappings Google Cloud Platform  - Published: June 28, 2022
This project identified and mapped security capabilities available as part of GCP to the ATT&CK techniques to which they can detect, protect, or respond. This allows cyber defenders of cloud platforms to make threat-informed decisions about which capabilities to use and how to use them.
Top ATT&CK Techniques  - Published: May 10, 2022
Top ATT&CK Techniques provides defenders with a systematic approach to prioritizing ATT&CK techniques. Our open methodology considers technique prevalence, common attack choke points, and actionability to enable defenders to focus on the ATT&CK techniques that are most relevant to their organization.
Sightings Ecosystem  - Published: February 23, 2022
This project provides cybersecurity defenders and researchers with critical insight into real-world, in the wild adversary behaviors mapped to ATT&CK. The ecosystem aims to fundamentally advance the collective ability to see threat activity across organizational, platform, vendor and geographical boundaries. Voluntarily contributed raw “sightings”, or observations, of specific adversary TTPs are mapped to ATT&CK, anonymized, and aggregated to produce intelligence describing insights from that data.
NIST 800-53 Control Mappings  - Published: January 13, 2022
This project created a comprehensive set of mappings between MITRE ATT&CK® and NIST Special Publication 800-53 with supporting documentation and resources. These mappings provide a critically important resource for organizations to assess their security control coverage against real-world threats as described in the ATT&CK knowledge base and provide a foundation for integrating ATT&CK-based threat information into the risk management process. With over 6,300 individual mappings between NIST 800-53 and ATT&CK, this resource greatly reduces the burden on the community to do their own baseline mappings– allowing organizations to focus their limited time and resources on understanding how controls map to threats in their specific environment.
Mapping ATT&CK to CVE for Impact Published: October 21, 2021
This research defines a methodology for using MITRE ATT&CK® to characterize the potential impacts of vulnerabilities. ATT&CK’s tactics and techniques enable defenders to quickly understand how a vulnerability can impact them.  Vulnerability reporters and researchers use the methodology to describe the impact of vulnerabilities, enabling defenders to easily integrate vulnerability information into their risk models and identify appropriate compensating security controls. This methodology aims to establish a critical connection between vulnerability management, threat modeling, and compensating controls.
Security Stack Mappings - Amazon Web Services  - Published: September 21, 2021
This project empowers organizations with independent data on which native AWS security controls are most useful in defending against the adversary TTPs that they care about. It achieves this by mapping security capabilities of AWS to the ATT&CK techniques that they can protect, detect, or respond to. This will allow organizations to make threat-informed decisions when selecting which native security capabilities to use to protect their workloads.
Atomic Data Sources  - Published: August 19, 2021
Cyber threat detection starts with understanding the data sources and sensors that can be used to detect a given adversary TTP. Motivated by a lack of detailed data source definitions in MITRE ATT&CK® to support defensive cyber operations use cases, we wanted to greatly expand the set of data sources in ATT&CK and research creating an open data model for data sources that would enable defenders to quickly determine if they have the data necessary to detect the adversary TTPs they care about. We worked with Center participants to develop a prototype model for describing data sources, as well as identifying and documenting a set of data sources that would ultimately be contributed to the ATT&CK Data Sources project.
Security Stack Mappings - Azure  - Published: June 29, 2021
This project empowers organizations with independent data on which native Azure security controls are most useful in defending against the adversary TTPs that they care about. It achieves this by mapping security capabilities of Azure to the ATT&CK techniques that they can protect, detect, or respond to. This will allow organizations to make threat-informed decisions when selecting which native security capabilities to use to protect their workloads.
ATT&CK for Containers - Published: May 3, 2021
This project investigated the viability of adding container-related techniques into MITRE ATT&CK, leading to the development of an ATT&CK for Containers matrix. This work covers both orchestration-level (e.g., Kubernetes) and container-level (e.g., Docker) adversary behaviors in a single Containers platform which has been incorporated in version 9 of ATT&CK. The project team worked with contributors from around the world to identify and refine both existing ATT&CK techniques as well as completely new container-specific ones.
menuPass Adversary Emulation Plan  - Published: February 4, 2021
menuPass is a threat group that has been active since at least 2006. Individual members of menuPass are known to have acted in association with the Chinese Ministry of State Security’s (MSS) Tianjin State Security Bureau and worked for the Huaying Haitai Science and Technology Development Company. menuPass has targeted healthcare, defense, aerospace, finance, maritime, biotechnology, energy, and government sectors globally, with an emphasis on Japanese organizations. In 2016 and 2017, the group is known to have targeted managed IT service providers (MSPs), manufacturing and mining companies, and a university. This project developed an adversary emulation plan for menuPass and added it to the Adversary Emulation Library.
ATT&CK for Cloud  - Published: December 10, 2020
This project refined and expanded MITRE ATT&CK’s coverage of adversary behaviors in cloud environments. Through our research, we refactored and consolidated the cloud platforms into IaaS, SaaS, Office365, and Azure AD. Next, we overhauled cloud data sources to better align with enterprise ATT&CK. Finally, we expanded cloud technique coverage adding and updating existing techniques.
CALDERA Pathfinder  - Published: October 13, 2020
This open-source CALDERA plugin helps you understand what a vulnerability exposes to an adversary and what potential destructive paths an adversary could take within the network as a result of those vulnerabilities. Pathfinder aims to push the boundaries on vulnerability scanning, moving them to the next generation by integrating vulnerability scan data with the CALDERA automated adversary emulation platform. Pathfinder first conducts a scan of a target network, and the results of the scan are ingested into CALDERA’s knowledge store, where it can then map out the network. Pathfinder is then able to combine the information from the scan with the power of a breach and attack simulation tool in order to map out potential attack paths within the target network.

FIN6 Adversary Emulation Plan  - Published: September 15, 2020
FIN6 is a cyber-crime group that has stolen payment card data and sold it for profit on underground marketplaces. This group has aggressively targeted and compromised point of sale (PoS) systems in the hospitality and retail sectors. This project developed an adversary emulation plan for FIN6 and added it to the Adversary Emulation Library.
