Introduction
============

Project Goal 
-------------
The goal for the project is to create a knowledge base of insider threat Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) based on cases seen throughout diverse industries such as healthcare, finance, and technology. These insider threat cases will allow us to gain insight into the TTPs that insider threat programs use to help protect organizations and identify future insider threat. By understanding the most commonly used TTPs insider threat programs can take conscientious action to defend their systems.  

Why ATT&CK 
-----------
The Insider Threat TTP Knowledge Base is not part of Enterprise ATT&CK, but represents a collection of insider threat actions that have been observed in enterprise networks. The Knowledge Base aligns this evidence to existing Enterprise ATT&CK TTPs and mitigations. The Enterprise ATT&CK matrix provides the baseline for the techniques identified by project participants. The participating organizations have identified insider techniques within actual case files corresponding to existing Enterprise ATT&CK techniques and to propose new techniques deemed novel or unique to insider threats. Based on the evidence submitted, the project has not identified any techniques that were unique enough to merit consideration as new techniques. As the Knowledge Base evolves, we anticipate discovering and documenting new insider techniques that may not fit within Enterprise ATT&CK. These novel insider techniques will be added to our Knowledge Base. Eventually, the Knowledge Base will consist of a mix of techniques referenced in Enterprise ATT&CK and techniques that are unique to insider threats that are not included in Enterprise ATT&CK. 

Scoping the Insider Threat Knowledge Base
-------------------------------------------- 
The Insider Threat TTP Knowledge Base project addresses the unique challenges that insider threats pose by starting with a modest scope in pursuit of an evidence-based result. We have constrained this research effort to the technical mechanisms that insiders use on information technology (IT) systems. This means that we deliberately exclude physical insider threat actions, such as workplace violence or smuggling documents on one’s person; those are non-technical and independent of IT systems. For the scope of this project, we likewise disregard discussions of the insider’s motive or what the insider did and could do once off the IT systems. This distinction is important. Within a single organization, different departments that have purview over insider threat may and do define the insider differently. This project compounds that complexity by seeking to rigorously define insider TTPs that can be used across all organizations. We were able to meet this goal by defining insider TTPs for security operations centers and cyber defenders, and by following the model of the Enterprise ATT&CK framework, which is well-established for SOCs and cyber defense professionals. 
